Ansible Client Setup Guide
This guide explains how to add client machines to our Ansible setup.

Prerequisites
Ansible installed on the control node (the machine running Ansible commands). For installation instructions, visit Ansible's official documentation.
SSH access from the control node to the client nodes. The control node should be able to SSH into the client nodes without a password.
Python installed on the client nodes. Most Linux distributions should have Python installed by default.
Step 1: Generate SSH key pair on control node
If you have not already done so, generate a new SSH key pair on your control node:

Command:
ssh-keygen

Step 2: Copy the SSH key to the client node
Next, copy your public SSH key to your client node. Replace user with your username and client-node with the IP address or hostname of your client node:

Command : 
ssh-copy-id user@client-node

Step 3: Add the client node to your Ansible inventory
The Ansible inventory file is a configuration file where you define the hosts (client nodes) that Ansible will manage. By default, the Ansible inventory file is located at /etc/ansible/hosts.

Open the Ansible inventory file with a text editor:

command :
sudo nano /etc/ansible/hosts

Add your client node to the inventory file:

[clients]
client-node ansible_user=user


Again, replace user with your username and client-node with the IP address or hostname of your client node.

You can test your setup by running an Ansible ping command, which will try to connect to your client node and return a pong if successful:

Command : 
ansible -m ping clients

You should see a response similar to this:

Example Result:

client-node | SUCCESS => {
    "changed": false,
    "ping": "pong"
}


If you see this response, you have successfully added a client node to your Ansible setup!

Remember, if you have multiple client nodes, you need to repeat steps 2 and 3 for each client node. You can also group client nodes under different categories in your inventory file, depending on your use case.
